---
layout: post
title: Week 7-8
categories: markdown
---
### (W/C 26th November): Technical Mentoring Session, Installing and setting up Android Studio, Vuforia and ARCore ###

The sixth week, mid-November, marked a turning point. We engaged in a detailed discussion with Gadhu Sundaram, delegated by Tom Winstanley, to guide us through the technical side of the project. During this meeting, we made crucial decisions about our software and platform:

- **Platform Decision**: We resolved to develop an Android application.
- **Technology Stack**: We chose to use Vuforia for image detection and ARCore, Google's toolkit for AR development.
- **Static Website Development**: We decided to use Jekyll, a static website generator, for transforming various markup languages into a static website.

This meeting was instrumental in defining our technological approach and setting the foundation for the next steps in our project.

This week we started setting up Android Studio, Vuforia, and ARcore on our respective devices as well as trying out the samples given by them. We were able to successfully run a sample on our phone which allowed us to detect objects on the app.

Also, we have come to an issue that Vuforia may be out of date. We set up a meeting with Gadhu for next week to further discuss the requirements as well as get a timeline and a detailed Gantt chart running for this project.

We also raised a ticket with requestUCL to get access to a router we could use for testing for our App.